Today is Thursday, April the 17th, 1997.
We're at your home in Austin. Would you please tell
me a little bit about your upbringing, where you
were raised, and all this kind of thing? I was
raised in Junction City, Kansas. Were you? Yes. My
dad was from Tecumseh,
Kansas. I and my five children immigrated to
Austin in 1965. In 65? Okay. And how old were the
children when you got here? Oh, ranging. Well, now
they're, I can tell you what they are now. They
range from 40. Seven to forty-three now. And so you
couldn't take it back to sixty-five and figure out
how old I was. Anyway, it was ridiculous for
Frankie and I to marry with nine kids. I want to hear
about that. When you came to Austin, did you start
working with the press right away, or what did you
do? You never worked at Press, okay. I worked at the
UT campus with the police corps program. Oh, okay,
all right. I have a master's degree in
linguistics. Okay. And then I worked at, uh,
Houston, at, uh, Houston Tourism. Okay, yeah. Uh,
how'd you happen to meet Frank Woodlawn? I met him
at a, a Houston-Hilson University of Texas party.
why they got together, sociology department of
all things. And he just stopped in. He was walking
at night, every night, and he would stop in at
various friends' houses for coffee. And I've met
him now. And you had five children, and Frank had
four children. And you decided you really need...
I think they made a television show about me. I
think so. Didn't they? Now, tell me, if I might
inquire further, was your husband, former
husband, first husband, living? Yes. I was
divorced at the time. How about Frank? His wife had
just died. When did she die? I was trying to
remember if it was 69 or 68. I cannot remember.
Okay, and he had four sons? No, two sons and two
daughters. Two sons and two daughters. I never
really checked that out. I'm not saying too much
about it. And you had four, five children, and they
were sons and daughters? Yeah, four sons and a
daughter. Four sons and a daughter. That was the
business. And did you, when you married, did you
all really live under the same roof for a while?
Yeah. They were, well, two of my boys went to Cal
College, both friends. Okay, yeah. And my
daughter just went to high school, I think, she's
forty-seven now. They were pretty
well-qualified.
Yeah. And when you married, you lived where? We
lived up at the Edenroth Apartments first. And
then we bought a duplex, and we lived in a duplex,
and then we bought a little home out. So, and that
was what year again, 16? We were married January
1st, 1970. January 1st, 1970. And Frank? No. Frank
was 15 and a half years older than I. Okay. He was
born in 1913. Yes.
When you walked into that world, publishing in the
University of Texas Press, how did you feel about
it? I mean, what did you see there? In the first
place, I thought that Frank, when I met him, had
something to do with newspapers. Okay. I can
understand that in the way he talks, probably. And
so I didn't know anything about the University
Press, or any of the University Presses.
But I soon found out. I bet. And was impressed. Was
it fun? Oh, it was fun. That's a key word of our time
at A.M. was fun. Yeah, I see that a lot in his
correspondence. When you were here now at Texas
from 1970 to 1974,
you all, I assume now, were pretty closely
entangled, let's say, with the Betacheks and
Nobby and that sort of thing. He was. He was. They
had all died before. They had already been. OK. I
didn't believe you then. I'm glad you told me.
Mm-hmm. But the widow, I remember we went to an
autograph party for the widows once at Schultz
Garden. Yeah, I remember Mrs. Dudley, and I
remember him vaguely, just... Walter Webb was
another one. Walter Prescott Webb, yes. And we
loved his wife.
So that world had pretty well already gone. Yes.
When you walked into the situation. Except for
Frank. Yeah, sure. Who retained the spirit of...
did how did frank feel about texas from 70 to 74 to
the press and austin and the university he got
pretty fed up with john silver okay i knew john
silver john silver's son was in my fraternity i
believe jack and i met him he was dean okay i'm just
nostalgic I don't know how John Silver is, but they
had attempted to pack the board with Erebus, and it
was such one struggle. That's right. And I know
Frank just kind of defined the faculty here, he
said at the time, as disgruntled. Now, Spur was the
president for a while. Yes, he was. I think when a
bank retired. We went and set up a house for a
farewell or something like that. Now, you all went
to... Help me reconstruct how it was that you
happened to get to Texas A&M. John Lindsey. Okay.
Now, when did you remember first encountering
John Lindsey? The first year or two, we were
married. Okay, you were early on. Yes. Now, I don't
remember when Frank knew me. Okay, what I'm kind of
leading, you can help me. What I kind of get out of
all this, and talking to Lindsay too, is that John
didn't know Frank Wardlaw until, but he knew Buck
Shewitz real well. Yes. And Buck asked John
Lindsay to come to a party, I'm going to say, at
Austin. And I should be able to tell you what party
that was, but I've already forgotten. And Lindsey
met Frank. And they hit, and this was Lindsey's
expression, they hit it off, right away. And Frank
also needed John Lindsey at that moment. because
he wanted Buck to do another book. Oh, I see. Okay.
Does that sound reasonable? It does sound
reasonable. Okay. It does. And he thought John
could help him get Buck to do that book. Buck always
had to be persuaded. I know that. So that was Buck,
but apparently then things really... worked out
and everybody seemed to have a good time for a
while, and y'all were frequent visitors, let's
say, I don't know how frequent, but anyway, you
visited John both in Houston and Galveston at that
beach house. Yes. Now, let me get to a critical
moment. This is from Lindsay's account, and also
from Frank's comments in that Catch-22,
Style-22, that article anyway. He kind of
explained how it was happening there, but there's
a little difference in the version. And I really
believe John Leeson's is probably the right one,
because Frank was writing, I think, public, all
consumption. But anyway, John said, and I'm doing
most of the talking, so just stop me whenever
you're ready. John said that you and Frank were in
his house, And not in Houston. Frank was fussing
about the faculty. And his advisory committee and
all things were kind of going to pieces. And so
John's version is that he said, well, Frank,
basically, why don't you quit bitching and come to
Texas A&M? I did not overhear this conversation,
but it sounds true. He says you did. He says you were
there. And he says, then the next response was, And
he may not have put it in quite those immodest
words, I don't know. Anyway, he said, come and
where you'll be appreciated. And Frank said much
the same as Frank said in his article that you all
were at the beach house and so forth. And Frank said
that his response was, well, this is a terrible
time to start a press. And John Lindsay's comment
was that both of you stopped and looked at him and
didn't say one word.
I don't remember that. Okay. I kind of believe the
Lindsay version. Because, well, it's hard to
believe, I guess, that Frank didn't have a
response, I guess, to something at the moment. But
anyway, I think it startled everybody, from what I
kind of gathered. I don't think Frank had ever
thought about it. Never thought of it. I really
don't think so. No, I don't think, everything I can
figure. In fact, for a man over 62. Yeah. do this was
very unusual. Yeah. He was thinking retirement.
That surprised me all through his letters, and I'm
sure you wrote. He was planning what he was going to
do when he retired. And what was going to happen to
the press after he retired. And he was going to
retire in 1965, whatever year it was. He had it.
plan, and he did it. I was amazed. When the time came
when he was 65, he wasn't quite ready, but his
doctor, Dr. Lipscomb, and I, we were ready. I like
Harry Lipscomb. I haven't seen him in years, but he
and I got friendly for a while. He's nice. Oh, he's a
lovely man. But anyway, then, according to
Lindsay, in the version I'm developing, you two
didn't really respond. Now, in Frank's article,
he says, when I explained that, you know, we
couldn't come because it was a terrible time to
start a quest. Well, that's true. But anyway, then
John says, and I think this is probably correct,
that Frank called him about two or three days later
after he had left Houston. He probably had another
run in the silver. And said, John, I'm going to talk
to you about coming to A&M. And John Lindsay said,
and I think he's right, I'm way ahead of you.
Because what John Lindsay had already done, I have
this pretty well documented. Set up an interview
with Jack Williams. Yes. He had it cold. I remember
that. He had gone to the board of directors. He had
three board members who were all ready for this. In
fact, they were Clyde Wells and all this. guy in
waco his name is me anyway three boys and and he told
called uh jack williams and said i'm i'm asking
frank wardlaw to come to a m and start a press what do
you think about it i was wondering if there was much
commotion about a press if that's all right well
that's see that's what i've been working on i don't
think much i think it was kind of a foggy notion
maybe because and one thing that was going on I do
know this I was already writing that Centennial
History thing and I had started that in 1969 and it
was just about done in fact it was finished by 72 73
and then of course Rutter had died and we had a lot of
confusion because Jack Williams became
president in 73 I believe it was he'd just come in
Frank was flounder of Jack Williams and almost any
administrator living or dead. I want to ask you
about that too. But then Lindsey had all this put
together so he and Jack came to talk to you and
Frank. Is that right? I think we had a luncheon
outside the home. In fact, Frank told him to meet
him at the Vagabond Motel, because he didn't want
to be seen so badly. That's what it was. That sounds
like Ring the Bell. And Lindsay, I'm still
laughing about that. So anyway, so that was the
next step. Jack Williams and Lindsay talked to
Frank. Now, what year was this? That was 17... No,
that was 17... still 74. I think that was the
spring, maybe it was either late 73 or the spring of
74. I believe it was the spring of 74. I remember
Frank coming home from that meeting saying, Jack
Williams is a fine fellow. That was the first time
they met. Okay, that's what I had too.
Another question I'm trying to figure out is,
where did the real initiative for this press come
from? Was it Jack Williams, or was it John Lindsay,
or who? I think a combination. I think so too. But I
still don't know how it came to pass. No, I don't
think they do either. And in fact, that's what I
kind of gathered from talking with Lindsay. He
said, well, Frank, why don't you come over here and
we'll start a press. It never had occurred to him
before. And then he was tickled. Yeah, and then I
said, well, John, do you like books and so forth?
No, I don't care for books. So I was trying to figure
out, but what he cared for, of course, was A&M. He's
the biggest Aggie in the world. He'd do anything
for A&M. And this seemed to be good for A&M. And I
thought, well, maybe this guy really liked books
or art
or whatever. He did like Frank, and he did like Zach
Williams, and that little mix worked nicely. So,
then you and Frank go to Austin, to, I'm sorry, to
College Station. Yes. When was it, in August?
That's about right. No, no, not the move. You moved
in August, but you went over there to see the signs.
Weren't too terribly thrilled. Okay, that's what
I wanted to know. No. When did this happen that you
decided to come to college? I don't know, but I knew
for months and had to keep quiet about it.
Well, I'm making a story out of this, and I'm not
sure it's right, so you might knock it in the head
real quick if it isn't right. But John Lindsay
again said, well, we were driving around, and I
went to the old board of directors' house. Pick up
Buck. Pick up Buck. Okay, good. That's what I'm
looking for, a confirmation. And he said, while I
went in to get Buck, you and Frank got out of the car
and walked around the house.
And he thinks, I think, that was the moment you
decided to come to College Station. I just wonder.
Well, we had no idea what... College Station isn't
the most beautiful place in the world. No, not in
1916, not in 1972 or what it was. Well, the campus
itself was fine. Yeah. We loved living there.
Still hear those... Those boys yelling back and
forth, bad words at each other. That's another
world. But to live on the campus. That's really
changed. The old Aggies are fading, I think. For
better or for worse. But I kind of thought that that
might really be the time when y'all decided this
was okay. Did you have any sense of that at all? No,
we didn't know for sure for quite a while. Okay. It
still makes a good story. Yeah, I think it was
Frank's idea. Wouldn't this be a one-population
plant? And it was. Because I can't even visualize
the new one. I mean, it's too fancy. Who else has
offices where everybody has a bathroom? A tub.
Yeah, ten bedrooms. That's right. Well, all the
other rooms, not the apartment. Each one had a
bathtub. It was a bathtub. A great big bathtub.
Which didn't do Buck much good. He couldn't get in
and out of it. I think he had a shower put in on top.
Now, so you decide to come. How'd you feel about
that, leaving Austin? Did you have any sense?
Anything he wanted. I did not care. I mean, about
leaving Austin, I had only been here a few years, so
I don't have any roots here.
Now, and when you got to College Station, and you
moved into the old Board of Directors' house, Can
you kind of just describe things that really hit
you? It was just marvelous, but it was dingy. Okay,
yeah. And nobody mentioned anything about rehab
in the place, and we wanted it so badly for what it
was that mostly I spent my time making grapes and
this and that, spreading out the furniture so it
didn't look too bare. Did you bring your own
furniture? Did they? Okay. Except for the sheets.
Yeah, okay. Old-fashioned cacao sheets.
Starched. Oh, luxury. I think I remember that
Aggie Laundry. I can't exactly remember. It was
real close.
Now what about Did you have any sense of Texas A&M,
like the kids? Oh yes, immediately. We had two dogs
at the time, two Scotties, and we would go out every
night and walk the dogs, and everybody would say
howdy to us. Yeah. And that was nice. In fact, Frank
had been coming in some of his letters.
Did the military flavor bother you particularly
at the time?
No. Was that Vietnam time? I can't remember. Yeah,
that was. And there wasn't much stirring around
Aggieland over that. No, that's right. And just
when Ohio and Austin, too, were getting the
permit, Very conservative. And still is, but it's
changed. Our kids, well of course we, I have a son
who went to Vietnam, and Hank's son.
You entertained a lot in the press. Yes. We had
three bedrooms.
spare bedrooms. And I don't think
a week went by without an accident. No authors or
just people. And oh, after the football games, we
were the only place on the campus that dispensed
free booze, and were we popular.
And you enjoyed it? Frank enjoyed it? Oh yes, we
loved it. I
was busy too, just being a hostess. Yeah, I'm sure
you were. That's a big part of the whole... I
remember John Graves said, this is the only place I
like to stay overnight. Well, usually I stay at a
hotel when I go someplace, but this place is fun. It
was fun, you know. Everybody had that sense, and
that's what kept, I think, everything so upbeat.
And compared, apparently, to what... And of
course, the staff was just crackerjack. Oh, they
were always friendly. It was small. It was for a
long time. It was just Gayla. Yeah, Gayla and
Margaret. And Don Collins comes in a little later.
And then Noel didn't come in until 75 or 76, but
there were three to start with. Oh, Ray Gamayi. Oh,
yes. Right. That's who it was. Those three. That
was the start of it. And Ray didn't really get there
until February, I think, of 75. I can't remember
how. Frank courted Ray. Early on, and he brought
him down almost the same time y'all moved in.
August through September. Ray came down and
visited the campus. And there's a letter there.
And in fact, then I saw the bill for the
entertainment that he sent for his reimbursement
to Buckwires. And they've taken Ray out to
barbecue twice. somewhere else, I forget where,
and then at your house, you know, several times,
and he was there about a week, he and his wife. Is she
still there? No, I don't think so, I don't know.
I've never heard anything of her. I'll ask Gayla.
Gayla really keeps in touch. I didn't know that.
And Gayla's still there. She was a person. I was
with Frank when he interviewed her. Is that right?
I thought, oh my God, she's so young. Frank said,
one look at her. That's it. His choice of people.
Who is outstanding. That's incredible. You know,
that's amazing for that press, that the people who
come and stay. That's what makes it go through.
That's very impressive. So those three, and then
Don Collins comes in. And he's a wonderful guy, and
he was. And Don is still around somewhere.
Chicago. OK. It was the last I heard. Yeah, I
probably should call him and talk to him in the
phone or something. And then Noel came in about,
what, 70, maybe even 77. I haven't really talked to
him, but somewhere around there. But it was a small
staff. Small staff? And I think he did four things
this year? Four or six, I can't remember. Have you
seen Elizabeth's job? Yes. No, I'm going. As soon
as I leave here, I'm going to go see her. Yeah, she
was quite close, being the first book, you know.
Yeah, right, yeah. And I knew her. I had met her, and
I liked the book. Yeah. It's a good book. So I'm
anxious to visit with her. Now, Frank, you and
Frank both, did you feel like that was a 24-hour
interview? How did you feel about the work? It was a
whole life. Just a lifestyle. A lifestyle that was
so rare and wonderful. To any man who loves his work
as much as Craig does his, it's just a wonderful
thing to behold. Yeah. And I think that's the
impression coming up with everybody that he
encountered. And then when you can have a book in
your hand to show for you, it's a wonderful thing.
And it's pretty. He loved books. And Frank was so
interested in everything. I still remember him
telling me that he didn't like this. He was a hot
lead man. Yeah, it's good he passed before. And in
fact, that A&M history, that Centennial history I
did, was printed at Taylor Printing Company. Oh,
really? On their computers. And I, he, Frank, and
Buckwires, and I went up there to tour the plant. I
remember that. Yeah. And Frank was down there
doing that computer stuff, you know. That's not
real printing. Which I thought was fun and
interesting.
Were there any... big problems or encounters that
you remember? I cannot remember any. I honestly
can't. You block them out, okay. He needed his head
tatted a little bit, you know, and he got it. He was
the emperor of all, Mr. Ray. And he enjoyed it after
being snubbed and snarled at here for so many
years. That's what I get from Lindsey and Williams
and Buck Wires. Now, Buck, did you know Buck Wires?
Well, Buck had a bad stroke about four years ago.
Oh, he's died. And he's done a lot of recovery and
recuperation. And he said, frankly, Henry said, I
have forgotten almost everything. But, he said, I
do remember this. He said, if Frank wanted
something, we've got it for him. Yes. And I think
that's wrong. Complete respect and admiration.
And after the deal went through here at UT, it was
just fun. Well, that's good. That's a nice way to do
it. Incidentally, I had a friend in South
Carolina, University of South Carolina. I called
him the other day because I needed the name of the
guy who hired Frank. McKissick. That's South
Carolina. McKissick. Was it McKissick? Okay,
well, he told me Admiral Smith or something like
that. Oh, maybe. That was in 1945. Now, McKissick
was a professor of journalism, I believe. Okay,
that would be right, too. Anyway, he wheeled and
wheeled because Frank had, what, three semesters
of college? Yes, yeah. And wow, suddenly it moved.
Maybe 8,000 years.
Speaking of that, there's a good comment. I can't
remember if it was Webb. Maybe Webb. When Frank
came to... Texas, I believe it was, when Frank
recounted or something. Yeah, he said he didn't
have any degrees, but he'd work on them in his spare
time. Yes, and Webb said, don't bother. He said,
what we don't need is somebody with a degree over
here. And he went through a long ritual about,
well, if you get a You know, the bachelor's degree,
you don't have much. You have to get a master's. If
you get a master's degree, then you have to go with a
Ph.D. And if you get a Ph.D., it hasn't educated you
at all. So you don't need that. Which I thought was
neat. I've used that in the book. Frank always
would feel that maybe he should have. He couldn't
be. His daddy was a Presbyterian minister during
the Depression. Mom, now, yeah. Frank was. Well,
he was in the WPA. Yeah. And I think that salary
was... CCC. CCC. And I think that was either $16 or
$27 a month. I forget what it was. Mm-hmm. Which she
sent home. One or the other. And half at least went
home. Maybe all of it. That's right. So I can't
imagine. But it's good that he, in my mind, it's
good that he didn't get that degree because that
would have cast him in another mode. Well, he had no
trouble dogging on with AP. Now,
any high points that you especially remember
about your time at? Buck lived with us, and he was so
wonderful. It was during his dry period, and he was
very, very super sensitive. Like he would know
when we wanted to be alone, and he would drift off.
But he would eat his meals, and he was so fun. And
they had been good friends before. Well, Frank had
published his book here. But that was a bad time for
Buck and I. And Frank was trying to help Buck. Yeah.
And he really worked on it to get that book out of
again. Oh, yeah. I remember a little of that. I
remember that. We had quite a few books that read
through the last of them. And when he came, he knew
this was going to stay on.